From this lesson, we begin to consider an additional artificial intelligence system
called EQS - Environment Query System.
This system helps the character to analyze the space and in accordance with the conditions that we set
in this system. At the output, we will generate the most suitable location or actor
for the given conditions. Let's create a new directory. We call it EQS.
Right-click and select Enviroment Query from the artificial intelligence menu. Create an asset, call it EQS_RandomRoam
This EQS will replace the logic for finding the next point while patrolling the scene.
Let's add a new blueprint class as well. This is a special pawn called EQS_TestsingPawn.
It is needed exclusively for testing EQS in the editor. In production, it is not used in any way.
We take it to the stage and also in the details panel in the EQS section select our EQS template EQS_RandomRoam.
Let's open asset. Before us is a count. It is somewhat similar to the behavior tree graph. We take out the arrow from root
And the menu invites us to create one of the so-called generators. Selecting the generator grid.
We generated grid-shaped locations around our pawn. In the details panel, we can also change the
parameters of this mesh. If you replace the node with circle, then points on the circle are generated. We can also
edit the parameters. For patrolling, let's use the cone generator - points are generated
in the sector, in the center of our pawn and also the forward vector corresponds to the rotation of our character.
This is a pretty good pattern for choosing the next point when moving, because the direction
will not change dramatically for the character. We can adjust the parameters that are available for this generator.
For example, let's change the cone degree - the angle of the sector. Let's put 200 degrees for example.
The next parameter is angle step - how many rays come out of the point. You can also play around with the values.
I'll return the default value of 10. The next parameter is range - the length of the rays. You can put, for example, 1500.
Next, you need to check that Trace Mode = Navigation is set in the projection data setting. This means
that all points are projected onto our navigation mesh, for example, if we set None,
then they will not be projected and a situation is possible when a point is generated that we cannot get to.
There is an additional setting for parameters called data binding. We can select a
value in the combobox - random number and specify the interval at which the range will be generated.
That is, every time the generator is called, for example, when we change the position of the pawn, the
range is selected randomly on our segment. We generated points around the pawn. Now, somehow
, we need to choose one of them, that is, the point to which our NPCs will run.
For this purpose, there are so-called tests in the EQS. Right-click on the legs and in the Add Test menu
we can select one of the existing tests. Let's choose distance. Location spheres turned blue.
This means that none of these points are suitable. Click on the test and in the details panel in the filter category
we see that the default type is range with values ​​0-0, so none of these points are suitable.
Change the type filter to a minimum. This test calculates the distance from each generated
point to our pawn and weights are assigned to each point depending on the distance. The farther the point,
the more weight and vice versa. Also, if we, for example, change the minimum value of the distance.
We put 400, then at all points at a distance from 0 to 400 units, we will not pass the test. We see it visually.
They are marked in blue and also in parentheses, their weight is zero.
Thus, the most distant points have the maximum weight, and as a result of running EQS in the behavior tree
, one of these points will be randomly selected. Let's see how it works. Open the behavior tree.
Disable our main tree for now. Click on the arrow while holding Alt. Let's add a simple sequence.
The first task will launch EQS. There is a special task type for this - Run EQS Query.
Also, in the details panel, you need to select our template and make sure that the blackboard key is
in AimLocation. The selected point will be written to the variable with this key. And the second task
in the sequence is MoveTo. We also see that the blackboard key is in AimLocation. Let's save the tree.
We start the game. Open debug info. Press the apostrophe. To display the EQS data,
you must press the number 3. The EQS starts. Points are generated.
The most successful one with the maximum weight is selected and the character moves to this point.
EQS is updated with a slight delay. Let's add a Wait node.
Let's set it 2 seconds to see in more detail what is happening. We start.
So, we have generated points. The most suitable location is selected.
It is also highlighted in light green and we see the inscription winner on it.
Thus, with the help of EQS, we have realized with you a more natural patrolling of the scene.